# CS360
Mobile Application Development Course

This application was designed to be a "Daily Weight Tracking" application that provides users with a tool they can use to track their weight, set a target weight to reach, and provide a notification whenever they reached that weight. The notification has been required to be an SMS notification, but the application also provides a push notification to the user as well. The goal of the application was to provide users with a tool that would encourage them to reach their goals with an intuitive and easy to use application. 

To accomplish these requirements and goals, the app provides a simple and clean interface with screens for logging in, registering, a general view of the added weight records, and a settings screen to adjust the notification settings. Some of the features include user registration and logging in, an in-memory database to ensure user credentials were correct, the ability to add a record through a FAB, the option to edit or delete a weight record, and the ability to set or edit a target weight. The UI desgign implemented kept a focus on what the user would be using the app for, providing flexibility to accommodate any changes, and provide a simple mechanism to enable or disable notifications. 

The approach I took for coding the actual app began with breakdown the entire process into much more manageable pieces. This required that I start with establishing the design and UI of the app, which began with drawing it out on paper. Once that had been decided, I created the XML files for each of the screens. This helped build the skeleton of the application that I could fill in and expand with functionality. I started with creating functionality to navigate from one screen to another, mechanisms to start a particular process, bottom sheets to faciliate the adding, deleting, or modifying of a weight record, and building out the RecyclerView used to display the weight records. 

Testing the code played an important role in the development process. At one point, I had not fully tested the RecyclerView and quickly realized I was encountering an issue that required I have to recreate several hours of work. This led me to ensuring I rebuilt the project frequently to ensure recent changes did not result in issues. I made sure I could navigate from screen to screen. Once I incorporated the Room database, I constantly tested to make sure I could only see weight records relevant to a specific user, registeration forms created a valid user with a user ID, and that I could not only add records, but edit and delete them as well. Testing revealed the importance of using logs, as I had to rely on that several times when reviewing LogCat to identify why my app was crashing when attempting to log into the app. 

When considering the full app design, I had to get pretty inventive and innovative to tie everything together. I wanted to try and use something other than just SQLite for the database and came across Room. This was my first experience with the tool, so it took a lot of trial and error to get it correctly. I also utilized Bottom Sheet fragments for several of the tasks in the application as well. This leads me to what I believe I did well in - the database and use of fragments instead of using Activities for each and every screen. 
